hey and welcome to the short stuff i'm josh and there's chuck and chuck i have a
question for you
yes don't you want to fanta is that a slogan
oh don't you wanna yeah yeah i remember that now it was very catchy
don't you fanna don't you wanna was that it don't you want to fanta
that's how i remember
okay uh i love fanna i mean wait wait you never answered my question well yeah
of course i do if
i love it okay um i think i've mentioned plenty of times that i did not grow up
drinking much soda
because as a family we didn't have the kind of money to just load up the house
with sodas
so sodas were only reserved for my mom to drink tab
oh yeah she was a tab drinker huh yeah we had money for that uh but i didn't
drink much soda
growing up so i don't drink soda now uh thankfully because that stuff is so bad
for you uh generally
speaking but i i will um hammer down six cokes a year and maybe four or five
fana oranges all at
once once a year i love them i love that fana orange i just you know you can't
drink that
stuff a lot have you had any of the other fantas the grape and etc
I think I like dabbled in the grape and knee-high grape and stuff when I was a
kid but it's really that and I like Sunkist preferred Sunkist as a kid here and
there Sunkist soda right yeah yeah but Fanta orange is one of my rare rare
guilty pleasures I gotcha I was more of a Faygo man as a kid I never drank those
and I also never have
drank any of the clear or yellows like I've never tasted Mountain Dew didn't
drink Mellow Yellow or Sprite or 7-Up or anything like that you missed out
you've never tasted Mountain Dew or Mellow Yellow I just want to make sure I
have that correct I don't think so wow I can't remember ever doing it I mean I
don't even know what it tastes like it looks lemon limey but no
no it's not it's its own thing for sure I don't know that you should ever break
the streak now that you've reached this long without trying it but it's not
lemon lime it's its own thing but what we're talking about is whether or not
Fanta is a Nazi drink
and we're going to go into the history of that and we're going to start out
talking a little bit about Coca-Cola the parent company as every most people
know by now it was invented by Dr. John Stith Pemberton in 1886 he was a
morphine addicted Civil War veteran looking for a better way to feel better than
morphine and put together some cocoa leaves and cola nuts which had you know
were stimulants because of cocaine and caffeine
and said hey this is like a new kind of medicine and after he died it went on to
be a very very popular drink it sure did one of the things that Coca-Cola did
over time was they expanded around the world they became an ambassador of
American democracy one of the places they expanded to is Germany pre-war Germany
or maybe interwar Germany I'm not sure when they showed up but regardless
by the time World War II was starting to ramp up say the 30s the late 30s Coca-
Cola was heavily entrenched in Germany and its subsidiary was Coca-Cola GmbH
which stands for which translates to company with limited liability and there
was a guy named Max Kite who ran the show there
and boy oh boy was he dedicated to Coca-Cola and furthering the cause of Coca-
Cola in Germany yes for sure he there's a guy named Mark Pendergrast who wrote a
book called For God Country and Coca-Cola no colon yeah way to go Mark yeah
that's incredible
and he said that you know this guy loved Coke so much he really just wanted to
weave it into every aspect of German life including the the Nazi party even
though supposedly he never was officially joined the Nazi party and you think
like well Coke probably wasn't super stoked about this
they didn't care Robert Woodruff was running Coke at the time and he was like
hey this is all good we're going to co-sponsor the 1936 Berlin Olympics we're
going to hang up some banners there with our logo right next to the swastika and
it's all it's all good everybody yeah can you imagine I looked high and low for
a photograph of that and I could not find it
I'm sure Coca-Cola has dedicated a significant amount of its operational funding
to destroying any evidence of that banner ever I haven't been to the world of
Coke Museum but I bet right here in Atlanta I bet it's not in there I'll bet
they don't have it up to there was also for the 10th anniversary of Coca-Cola
GMBH they decided to commemorate their deepest admiration for the Fuhrer for
Hitler's 50th birthday